doc/source/deploy-guide/configure-environment.rst, before:

.. _configuredeployment:

Configure the deployment
========================

.. blockdiag::

   blockdiag {

     localhost [label="Prepare localhost"]
     ses [label="Deploy SES\n(optional)"]
     caasp [label="Deploy CaaSP\n(optional)"]
     deployer [label="Deploy deployer\n(optional)"]
     enroll_caasp [label="Enroll CaaSP\n(optional)"]
     setup_caasp_workers [label="Setup CaaSP\nfor OpenStack"]
     patch_upstream [label="Apply patches\nfrom upstream\n(for developers)"]
     build_images [label="Build docker images\n(for developers)"]
     deploy [label="Deploy OpenStack"]
     configure_deployment [label="Configure deployment"]

     localhost -> ses;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "Setup hosts"
       ses -> caasp;
       caasp -> deployer [folded];
       deployer -> enroll_caasp;
     }
     enroll_caasp -> configure_deployment [folded];
     localhost -> configure_deployment[folded];

     group {
       color = "red"
       configure_deployment
     }

     configure_deployment -> setup_caasp_workers;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "OpenStack deployment"
       setup_caasp_workers -> deploy, patch_upstream [folded];
       patch_upstream -> build_images;
       build_images -> deploy;
     }
   }

All the files for the deployment are in a **workspace**, whose default location
is `~/suse-osh-deploy` on `localhost`.

This workspace is structured like an `ansible-runner` directory.

It therefore contains:

* an `inventory` folder
* an `env` folder.

Additionally, this folder must contain extra files necessary for the
deployment, like the `ses_config.yml` and the `kubeconfig` files.

Configure the inventory
-----------------------

If you are bringing your own cluster, create an inventory based on our
example, located in the `examples` folder.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/workdir/inventory/hosts.yml

As you can see, this inventory only contains the group names.

For each group, a `hosts:` key should be added, with, as value, each
of the hosts you will need. For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   caasp-admin:
     hosts:
       jevrard-57997-admin-x6sugiws4g34:
         ansible_host: 10.86.1.144

See also
`Ansible Inventory Hosts and Groups
<https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.7/user_guide/intro_inventory.html#hosts-and-groups>`_.

.. tip::

   Do not add `localhost` as a host in your inventory.
   It is a host specially considered by Ansible.
   If you want to create an inventory node for your local
   machine, add your machine's hostname inside your inventory,
   and specify this host variable: **ansible_connection: local**

Make the SES pools known by Ansible
-----------------------------------

Currently, we rely on two things to know the :term:`SES` pools created for the
Airship/OpenStack deployment:

* a `ses_config.yml` file present in the workspace
* the ceph admin keyring, in base64, present in the file `env/extravars` of
  your workspace.

You can find an example `ses_config.yml` in `examples/workdir`.

Configure the VIP that will be used for OpenStack service public endpoints
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add `socok8s_ext_vip:` with its appropriate value for your
environment in your `env/extravars`. This should be an available IP
on the external network (in development environment, it can be the same as
CaaSP cluster network).

For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   socok8s_ext_vip: "10.10.10.10"


Configure the VIP that will be used for Airship UCP service endpoints
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add `socok8s_dcm_vip:` with its appropriate value for your
environment in your `env/extravars`. This should be an available IP
on the data center management (DCM) network (in development environment, it
can be the same as CaaSP cluster network).

For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   socok8s_dcm_vip: "192.168.51.35"

Provide a kubeconfig file
-------------------------

socok8s relies on kubectl and helm commands to configure your OpenStack
deployment. You need to provide a `kubeconfig` file on your `localhost`, in
your workspace. You can fetch this file from the Velum UI on your
CaaSP cluster.

Configure passwords
-------------------

Advanced configuration
----------------------

socok8s deployment variables respects Ansible general precedence.
All the variables can therefore be adapted.

Keep in mind you can override most user facing variables with host vars and
group vars.

.. note ::

   You can also use extravars, as extravars always win.
   That can be used to override any deployment code.
   Use it at your own risk.

socok8s is very flexible, and allows you to
override any upstream helm chart's value with the appropriate overrides.

.. note ::

   Please read the page :ref:`userscenarios` for inspiration on overrides.

Commit message:

Add env var SOCOK8S_ENVNAME as unique name
For beeing able to deploy multiple environments in parallel, introduce
the unique environment variable SOCOK8S_ENVNAME.
This variable will be used for deriving other resource names like:

- the workspace name (previously ANSIBLE_RUNNER_DIR) where the state
  will be stored
- OpenStack resources (networks/stacks/servers/volumes/...)

Adding this variable makes it easier to collect resources which belong
to a given deployment or workspace.

This commit is just the first step which adds the variable and uses it
for defining the workspace name.

Note: Every deployment must now set SOCOK8S_ENVNAME before running any
steps from run.sh . The variable SOCOK8S_WORKSPACE_BASEDIR is also
needed but automatically set to ~

Note: ANSIBLE_RUNNER_DIR has no longer any effect. The workspace
directory is now constructed via ${SOCOK8S_ENVNAME}-workspace .

doc/source/deploy-guide/configure-environment.rst, after:

.. _configuredeployment:

Configure the deployment
========================

.. blockdiag::

   blockdiag {

     localhost [label="Prepare localhost"]
     ses [label="Deploy SES\n(optional)"]
     caasp [label="Deploy CaaSP\n(optional)"]
     deployer [label="Deploy deployer\n(optional)"]
     enroll_caasp [label="Enroll CaaSP\n(optional)"]
     setup_caasp_workers [label="Setup CaaSP\nfor OpenStack"]
     patch_upstream [label="Apply patches\nfrom upstream\n(for developers)"]
     build_images [label="Build docker images\n(for developers)"]
     deploy [label="Deploy OpenStack"]
     configure_deployment [label="Configure deployment"]

     localhost -> ses;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "Setup hosts"
       ses -> caasp;
       caasp -> deployer [folded];
       deployer -> enroll_caasp;
     }
     enroll_caasp -> configure_deployment [folded];
     localhost -> configure_deployment[folded];

     group {
       color = "red"
       configure_deployment
     }

     configure_deployment -> setup_caasp_workers;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "OpenStack deployment"
       setup_caasp_workers -> deploy, patch_upstream [folded];
       patch_upstream -> build_images;
       build_images -> deploy;
     }
   }

All the files for the deployment are in a :term:`workspace`, whose default location
is |socok8s_workspace_default| on `localhost`.
The default name can be changed via the environment variable `SOCOK8S_ENVNAME`

This workspace is structured like an `ansible-runner` directory.

It therefore contains:

* an `inventory` folder
* an `env` folder.

Additionally, this folder must contain extra files necessary for the
deployment, like the `ses_config.yml` and the `kubeconfig` files.

Configure the inventory
-----------------------

If you are bringing your own cluster, create an inventory based on our
example, located in the `examples` folder.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../examples/workdir/inventory/hosts.yml

As you can see, this inventory only contains the group names.

For each group, a `hosts:` key should be added, with, as value, each
of the hosts you will need. For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   caasp-admin:
     hosts:
       jevrard-57997-admin-x6sugiws4g34:
         ansible_host: 10.86.1.144

See also
`Ansible Inventory Hosts and Groups
<https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.7/user_guide/intro_inventory.html#hosts-and-groups>`_.

.. tip::

   Do not add `localhost` as a host in your inventory.
   It is a host specially considered by Ansible.
   If you want to create an inventory node for your local
   machine, add your machine's hostname inside your inventory,
   and specify this host variable: **ansible_connection: local**

Make the SES pools known by Ansible
-----------------------------------

Currently, we rely on two things to know the :term:`SES` pools created for the
Airship/OpenStack deployment:

* a `ses_config.yml` file present in the workspace
* the ceph admin keyring, in base64, present in the file `env/extravars` of
  your workspace.

You can find an example `ses_config.yml` in `examples/workdir`.

Configure the VIP that will be used for OpenStack service public endpoints
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add `socok8s_ext_vip:` with its appropriate value for your
environment in your `env/extravars`. This should be an available IP
on the external network (in development environment, it can be the same as
CaaSP cluster network).

For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   socok8s_ext_vip: "10.10.10.10"


Configure the VIP that will be used for Airship UCP service endpoints
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add `socok8s_dcm_vip:` with its appropriate value for your
environment in your `env/extravars`. This should be an available IP
on the data center management (DCM) network (in development environment, it
can be the same as CaaSP cluster network).

For example:

.. code-block:: yaml

   socok8s_dcm_vip: "192.168.51.35"

Provide a kubeconfig file
-------------------------

socok8s relies on kubectl and helm commands to configure your OpenStack
deployment. You need to provide a `kubeconfig` file on your `localhost`, in
your workspace. You can fetch this file from the Velum UI on your
CaaSP cluster.

Configure passwords
-------------------

Advanced configuration
----------------------

socok8s deployment variables respects Ansible general precedence.
All the variables can therefore be adapted.

Keep in mind you can override most user facing variables with host vars and
group vars.

.. note ::

   You can also use extravars, as extravars always win.
   That can be used to override any deployment code.
   Use it at your own risk.

socok8s is very flexible, and allows you to
override any upstream helm chart's value with the appropriate overrides.

.. note ::

   Please read the page :ref:`userscenarios` for inspiration on overrides.
