doc/source/deploy-guide/prepare-localhost.rst, before:

.. _preparelocalhost:

Prepare localhost
=================

.. blockdiag::

   blockdiag {

     localhost [label="Prepare localhost"]
     ses [label="Deploy SES\n(optional)"]
     caasp [label="Deploy CaaSP\n(optional)"]
     deployer [label="Deploy deployer\n(optional)"]
     enroll_caasp [label="Enroll CaaSP\n(optional)"]
     setup_caasp_workers [label="Setup CaaSP\nfor OpenStack"]
     patch_upstream [label="Apply patches\nfrom upstream\n(for developers)"]
     build_images [label="Build docker images\n(for developers)"]
     deploy [label="Deploy OpenStack"]
     configure_deployment [label="Configure deployment"]

     group {
       localhost
       color="red"
     }

     localhost -> ses;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "Setup hosts"
       ses -> caasp;
       caasp -> deployer [folded];
       deployer -> enroll_caasp;
     }
     enroll_caasp -> configure_deployment [folded];
     localhost -> configure_deployment[folded];

     configure_deployment -> setup_caasp_workers;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "OpenStack deployment"
       setup_caasp_workers -> deploy, patch_upstream [folded];
       patch_upstream -> build_images;
       build_images -> deploy;
     }
   }

Base software
-------------

Install the following software on your `localhost`:

  * jq
  * ipcalc
  * git
  * python-virtualenv

Optionally, `localhost` can be preinstalled with the following software:

  * ansible>=2.7.0
  * python-openstackclient
  * python-requests
  * python-jmespath
  * python-openstacksdk
  * python-netaddr

Make sure to install the variant of the packages that matches the Python
release that ansible is using. (e.g. on openSUSE Tumbleweed, Ansible is using
Python 3, so install the "python3-" variant of the packages)

If those optional software aren't installed, they will be installed in a
venv in `~/suse-socok8s-deploy/.ansiblevenv`.

Cloning this repository
-----------------------

To get started, you need to clone this repository. This repository uses
submodules, so you need to get all the code to make sure the playbooks
work.

::

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/socok8s.git

Alternatively, one can fetch/update the tree of the submodules by
running:

::

   git submodule update --init --recursive

Configure Ansible
-----------------

Use ARA (recommended)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To use ARA, set the following environment variable before running `run.sh`.

.. code-block:: console

   export USE_ARA='True'

To setup ARA more permanently for your user on `localhost`, create an ansible
configuration file loading ara plugins:

.. code-block:: console

   python -m ara.setup.ansible | tee ~/.ansible.cfg

For more details on ARA's web interface, please read
https://ara.readthedocs.io/en/stable/webserver.html .

Enable mitogen (optional)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To improve deployment speed, enable mitogen strategy and connection plugin.
First install mitogen in your venv (e.g. `~/suse-socok8s-deploy/.ansiblevenv/` or your local
ansible environment), then enable it using environment variables.

Alternatively, enable it for all your ansible calls by adding it to your
ansible configuration:

.. code-block:: console

   cat < EOF >> ~/.ansible.cfg
   strategy_plugins=${HOME}/suse-socok8s-deploy/.ansiblevenv/lib/python3.6/site-packages/ansible_mitogen/plugins/strategy
   strategy = mitogen_linear
   EOF

For more details on mitogen, please read
https://mitogen.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ansible.html .

Enable pipelining (recommended)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You might want to improve SSH connections by enabling pipelining:

.. code-block:: console

   cat < EOF >> ~/.ansible.cfg
   [ssh_connection]
   pipelining = True
   EOF

.. _deploymechanism:

Set a deployment mechanism
--------------------------

This tooling can work with two different mechanisms:

* Bring your own environment
* Deploy everything on top of OpenStack (experimental).

This behaviour can be changed by setting the environment variable
`DEPLOYMENT_MECHANISM`.

For example, if you want to bring your own :term:`CaaSP`/:term:`SES` cluster,
run:

.. code-block:: console

   export DEPLOYMENT_MECHANISM='KVM'

Alternatively, if you want to deploy :term:`CaaSP`, :term:`SES` and
OpenStack on top of an OpenStack environment (for CI for example), run:

.. code-block:: console

   export DEPLOYMENT_MECHANISM='openstack'

OpenStack is the current default behaviour.

.. _configureopenstackdeploymentmechanism:

Configure OpenStack deployment mechanism (experimental)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the case you are not bringing your own environment, this socok8s tooling can
deploy :term:`CaaSP`, :term:`SES`, and/or a deployer on its own with the help of
OpenStack.

Make sure your environment have an openstack client configuration file.
For that, you can create the ``~/.config/openstack/clouds.yaml``.

Replace the username and password with your appropriate credentials in
the following example if you are running on engcloud (SUSE employees):

::

   clouds:
     engcloud:
       region_name: CustomRegion
       auth:
         auth_url: https://keystone_url/v3
         username: foctodoodle # your username here
         password: my-super-secret-password # your password here or add it into secure.yaml
         project_name: cloud
         project_domain_name: default
         user_domain_name: ldap_users # this is just an example, adapt to your needs
       identity_api_version: 3
   ansible:
     use_hostnames: True
     expand_hostvars: False
     fail_on_errors: True

SUSE Employees, you can access the engcloud web UI at https://engcloud.prv.suse.net/.
For more information on how to set up your `clouds.yaml`, see
https://wiki.microfocus.net/index.php/SUSE/ECP.
If you don’t have the SUSE root certificate installed, check
http://ca.suse.de/, install the package, and point to the pem file
in your clouds.yaml, as described in the procedure linked above.

Now pre-create your environment. It is convention here to use your username
as part of the name of objects you create.

Create a keypair on your cloud (named further *engcloud*)
(using either the horizon's web interface or
OpenStack CLI’s ``openstack keypair create``) for accessing the
instances created. Remember the name of this keypair (which appears as
``foctodoodle-key`` in the example below)

Set this for **all** the following scripts in a deployment:

.. code-block:: console

   export OS_CLOUD=engcloud
   # 'engcloud' is the name in the `clouds.yaml`,
   # Set the name of the keypair you created
   export KEYNAME=foctodoodle-key
   # Set the name of the network you will use in the deployment
   export INTERNAL_NETWORK=foctodoodle-net
   # Set the name of the subnet you will use in the deployment
   export INTERNAL_SUBNET=foctodoodle-subnet
   # Set the name of the floating ip network you will use in the deployment
   export EXTERNAL_NETWORK=floating

If you haven't created the internal networks/subnets and appropriate routers
already, do it now (you only have to do it once):

.. code-block:: console

   openstack network create ${INTERNAL_NETWORK}
   openstack subnet create --network ${INTERNAL_NETWORK} --subnet-range 192.168.100.0/24 ${INTERNAL_SUBNET}
   openstack router create ${INTERNAL_NETWORK}-router
   openstack router set --external-gateway floating ${INTERNAL_NETWORK}-router
   openstack router add subnet ${INTERNAL_NETWORK}-router ${INTERNAL_SUBNET}

Reconfirming that you’ve done all the previous steps to set up now will
save you some time later.

With this done, proceed to next section of the documentation,
:ref:`targethosts`.

Configure KVM deployment mechanism
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This deployment mechanism is only for "Bring your own cluster" cases.
There is no additional environment variable to define.

With this done, continue your deployment by reading the
:ref:`configuredeployment` page.

Commit message:

Add env var SOCOK8S_ENVNAME as unique name
For beeing able to deploy multiple environments in parallel, introduce
the unique environment variable SOCOK8S_ENVNAME.
This variable will be used for deriving other resource names like:

- the workspace name (previously ANSIBLE_RUNNER_DIR) where the state
  will be stored
- OpenStack resources (networks/stacks/servers/volumes/...)

Adding this variable makes it easier to collect resources which belong
to a given deployment or workspace.

This commit is just the first step which adds the variable and uses it
for defining the workspace name.

Note: Every deployment must now set SOCOK8S_ENVNAME before running any
steps from run.sh . The variable SOCOK8S_WORKSPACE_BASEDIR is also
needed but automatically set to ~

Note: ANSIBLE_RUNNER_DIR has no longer any effect. The workspace
directory is now constructed via ${SOCOK8S_ENVNAME}-workspace .

doc/source/deploy-guide/prepare-localhost.rst, after:

.. _preparelocalhost:

Prepare localhost
=================

.. blockdiag::

   blockdiag {

     localhost [label="Prepare localhost"]
     ses [label="Deploy SES\n(optional)"]
     caasp [label="Deploy CaaSP\n(optional)"]
     deployer [label="Deploy deployer\n(optional)"]
     enroll_caasp [label="Enroll CaaSP\n(optional)"]
     setup_caasp_workers [label="Setup CaaSP\nfor OpenStack"]
     patch_upstream [label="Apply patches\nfrom upstream\n(for developers)"]
     build_images [label="Build docker images\n(for developers)"]
     deploy [label="Deploy OpenStack"]
     configure_deployment [label="Configure deployment"]

     group {
       localhost
       color="red"
     }

     localhost -> ses;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "Setup hosts"
       ses -> caasp;
       caasp -> deployer [folded];
       deployer -> enroll_caasp;
     }
     enroll_caasp -> configure_deployment [folded];
     localhost -> configure_deployment[folded];

     configure_deployment -> setup_caasp_workers;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "OpenStack deployment"
       setup_caasp_workers -> deploy, patch_upstream [folded];
       patch_upstream -> build_images;
       build_images -> deploy;
     }
   }

Base software
-------------

Install the following software on your `localhost`:

  * jq
  * ipcalc
  * git
  * python-virtualenv

Optionally, `localhost` can be preinstalled with the following software:

  * ansible>=2.7.0
  * python-openstackclient
  * python-requests
  * python-jmespath
  * python-openstacksdk
  * python-netaddr

Make sure to install the variant of the packages that matches the Python
release that ansible is using. (e.g. on openSUSE Tumbleweed, Ansible is using
Python 3, so install the "python3-" variant of the packages)

If those optional software aren't installed, they will be installed in a
venv in |socok8s_workspace_default|\ `/.ansiblevenv` .

Cloning this repository
-----------------------

To get started, you need to clone this repository. This repository uses
submodules, so you need to get all the code to make sure the playbooks
work.

::

   git clone --recursive https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/socok8s.git

Alternatively, one can fetch/update the tree of the submodules by
running:

::

   git submodule update --init --recursive

Configure Ansible
-----------------

Use ARA (recommended)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To use ARA, set the following environment variable before running `run.sh`.

.. code-block:: console

   export USE_ARA='True'

To setup ARA more permanently for your user on `localhost`, create an ansible
configuration file loading ara plugins:

.. code-block:: console

   python -m ara.setup.ansible | tee ~/.ansible.cfg

For more details on ARA's web interface, please read
https://ara.readthedocs.io/en/stable/webserver.html .

Enable mitogen (optional)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To improve deployment speed, enable mitogen strategy and connection plugin.
First install mitogen in your venv (e.g. |socok8s_workspace_default|\ `/.ansiblevenv` 
or your local ansible environment), then enable it using environment variables.

Alternatively, enable it for all your ansible calls by adding it to your
ansible configuration:

.. we need parsed-literal instead of code-block here. Otherwise the variable substitute does not work
.. parsed-literal::

   cat < EOF >> ~/.ansible.cfg
   strategy_plugins=${HOME}\ |socok8s_workspace_default|\ /.ansiblevenv/lib/python3.6/site-packages/ansible_mitogen/plugins/strategy
   strategy = mitogen_linear
   EOF

For more details on mitogen, please read
https://mitogen.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ansible.html .

Enable pipelining (recommended)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You might want to improve SSH connections by enabling pipelining:

.. code-block:: console

   cat < EOF >> ~/.ansible.cfg
   [ssh_connection]
   pipelining = True
   EOF

.. _deploymechanism:

Defining a workspace
--------------------

`socok8s` might create a :term:`workspace`, install things (eg. ansible in a virtualenv) 
or create resources (eg. OpenStack Heat stacks if the deployment mechanism is `openstack`).
For all of theses operations, a environment variable called `SOCOK8S_ENVNAME`
needs to be set. This variable must be unique if multiple environments are
installed in parallel.

.. code-block:: console

   export SOCOK8S_ENVNAME='foctodoodle'


Set a deployment mechanism
--------------------------

This tooling can work with two different mechanisms:

* Bring your own environment
* Deploy everything on top of OpenStack (experimental).

This behaviour can be changed by setting the environment variable
`DEPLOYMENT_MECHANISM`.

For example, if you want to bring your own :term:`CaaSP`/:term:`SES` cluster,
run:

.. code-block:: console

   export DEPLOYMENT_MECHANISM='KVM'

Alternatively, if you want to deploy :term:`CaaSP`, :term:`SES` and
OpenStack on top of an OpenStack environment (for CI for example), run:

.. code-block:: console

   export DEPLOYMENT_MECHANISM='openstack'

OpenStack is the current default behaviour.

.. _configureopenstackdeploymentmechanism:

Configure OpenStack deployment mechanism (experimental)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the case you are not bringing your own environment, this socok8s tooling can
deploy :term:`CaaSP`, :term:`SES`, and/or a deployer on its own with the help of
OpenStack.

Make sure your environment have an openstack client configuration file.
For that, you can create the ``~/.config/openstack/clouds.yaml``.

Replace the username and password with your appropriate credentials in
the following example if you are running on engcloud (SUSE employees):

::

   clouds:
     engcloud:
       region_name: CustomRegion
       auth:
         auth_url: https://keystone_url/v3
         username: foctodoodle # your username here
         password: my-super-secret-password # your password here or add it into secure.yaml
         project_name: cloud
         project_domain_name: default
         user_domain_name: ldap_users # this is just an example, adapt to your needs
       identity_api_version: 3
   ansible:
     use_hostnames: True
     expand_hostvars: False
     fail_on_errors: True

SUSE Employees, you can access the engcloud web UI at https://engcloud.prv.suse.net/.
For more information on how to set up your `clouds.yaml`, see
https://wiki.microfocus.net/index.php/SUSE/ECP.
If you don’t have the SUSE root certificate installed, check
http://ca.suse.de/, install the package, and point to the pem file
in your clouds.yaml, as described in the procedure linked above.

Now pre-create your environment. It is convention here to use your username
as part of the name of objects you create.

Create a keypair on your cloud (named further *engcloud*)
(using either the horizon's web interface or
OpenStack CLI’s ``openstack keypair create``) for accessing the
instances created. Remember the name of this keypair (which appears as
``foctodoodle-key`` in the example below)

Set this for **all** the following scripts in a deployment:

.. code-block:: console

   export OS_CLOUD=engcloud
   # 'engcloud' is the name in the `clouds.yaml`,
   # Set the name of the keypair you created
   export KEYNAME=foctodoodle-key
   # Set the name of the network you will use in the deployment
   export INTERNAL_NETWORK=foctodoodle-net
   # Set the name of the subnet you will use in the deployment
   export INTERNAL_SUBNET=foctodoodle-subnet
   # Set the name of the floating ip network you will use in the deployment
   export EXTERNAL_NETWORK=floating

If you haven't created the internal networks/subnets and appropriate routers
already, do it now (you only have to do it once):

.. code-block:: console

   openstack network create ${INTERNAL_NETWORK}
   openstack subnet create --network ${INTERNAL_NETWORK} --subnet-range 192.168.100.0/24 ${INTERNAL_SUBNET}
   openstack router create ${INTERNAL_NETWORK}-router
   openstack router set --external-gateway floating ${INTERNAL_NETWORK}-router
   openstack router add subnet ${INTERNAL_NETWORK}-router ${INTERNAL_SUBNET}

Reconfirming that you’ve done all the previous steps to set up now will
save you some time later.

With this done, proceed to next section of the documentation,
:ref:`targethosts`.

Configure KVM deployment mechanism
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This deployment mechanism is only for "Bring your own cluster" cases.
There is no additional environment variable to define.

With this done, continue your deployment by reading the
:ref:`configuredeployment` page.
