doc/source/deployment/ses-integration.rst, before:

.. _ses_integration:

SUSE Enterprise Storage Integration
===================================

.. blockdiag::

   blockdiag {
     default_fontsize = 11;
     deployer [label="Setup deployer"]
     ses_integration [label="SES Integration"]
     configure [label="Configure\nCloud"]
     setup_caasp_workers [label="Setup CaaS Platform\nworker nodes"]
     patch_upstream [label="Apply patches\nfrom upstream\n(for developers)"]
     build_images [label="Build Docker images\n(for developers)"]
     deploy_airship [label="Deploy Airship"]
     deploy_openstack [label="Deploy OpenStack"]

     group {
       ses_integration
       color="red"
     }

     deployer -> ses_integration;
     ses_integration -> configure;
     configure -> setup_caasp_workers;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "OpenStack deployment"
       setup_caasp_workers -> patch_upstream;
       patch_upstream -> build_images;
       build_images -> deploy_airship [folded];
       setup_caasp_workers -> deploy_airship;
       deploy_airship -> deploy_openstack;
     }
   }


For SES deployments using version 5.5 and higher, a Salt runner can create all
the users and pools OpenStack services require. It also generates a yaml
configuration that is needed to integrate with SUSE Containerized OpenStack.
The integration runner creates separate users for Cinder, Cinder backup, and
Glance. Both the Cinder and Nova services will have the same user, as Cinder
needs access to create objects that Nova uses.

Log in as root to run the SES 5.5 Salt runner on the salt admin host.

.. code-block:: bash

  # salt-run --out=yaml openstack.integrate prefix=mycloud

The prefix parameter allows pools to be created with the specified prefix.
In this way, multiple cloud deployments can use different users and pools on
the same SES deployment.

The sample yaml output:

.. code-block:: yaml

  ceph_conf:
    cluster_network: 10.84.56.0/21
    fsid: d5d7c7cb-5858-3218-a36f-d028df7b0673
    mon_host: 10.84.56.8, 10.84.56.9, 10.84.56.7
    mon_initial_members: ses-osd1, ses-osd2, ses-osd3
    public_network: 10.84.56.0/21
  cinder:
    key: AQCdfIRaxefEMxAAW4zp2My/5HjoST2Y8mJg8A==
    rbd_store_pool: mycloud-cinder
    rbd_store_user: cinder
  cinder-backup:
    key: AQBb8hdbrY2bNRAAqJC2ZzR5Q4yrionh7V5PkQ==
    rbd_store_pool: mycloud-backups
    rbd_store_user: cinder-backup
  glance:
    key: AQD9eYRachg1NxAAiT6Hw/xYDA1vwSWLItLpgA==
    rbd_store_pool: mycloud-glance
    rbd_store_user: glance
  nova:
    rbd_store_pool: mycloud-nova
  radosgw_urls:
    - http://10.84.56.7:80/swift/v1
    - http://10.84.56.8:80/swift/v1

After you have run the openstack.integrate runner, copy the yaml into the
ses_config.yml file in the root of the workspace on the Deployer node.

Commit message:

Updating SES pool configuration setup docs
Now we are creating needed ceph pools as part of deployment
and also ses_config is also created and made available in
workspace. Changes needed in extravars is also taken care
in playbook execution. So now we are kind of deprecating salt runner
instructions as an optional setup.

doc/source/deployment/ses-integration.rst, after:

.. _ses_integration:

SUSE Enterprise Storage Integration
===================================

.. blockdiag::

   blockdiag {
     default_fontsize = 11;
     deployer [label="Setup deployer"]
     ses_integration [label="SES Integration"]
     configure [label="Configure\nCloud"]
     setup_caasp_workers [label="Setup CaaS Platform\nworker nodes"]
     patch_upstream [label="Apply patches\nfrom upstream\n(for developers)"]
     build_images [label="Build Docker images\n(for developers)"]
     deploy_airship [label="Deploy Airship"]
     deploy_openstack [label="Deploy OpenStack"]

     group {
       ses_integration
       color="red"
     }

     deployer -> ses_integration;
     ses_integration -> configure;
     configure -> setup_caasp_workers;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "OpenStack deployment"
       setup_caasp_workers -> patch_upstream;
       patch_upstream -> build_images;
       build_images -> deploy_airship [folded];
       setup_caasp_workers -> deploy_airship;
       deploy_airship -> deploy_openstack;
     }
   }


For SES deployments using version 5.5 and higher, a Salt runner can create all
the users and pools OpenStack services require. It also generates a yaml
configuration that is needed to integrate with SUSE Containerized OpenStack.
The integration runner creates separate users for Cinder, Cinder backup, and
Glance. Both the Cinder and Nova services will have the same user, as Cinder
needs access to create objects that Nova uses.

.. note ::

   This is an optional step in case preference is to use storage pools created
   with Salt runner. Otherwise, deployment steps will create the necessary pool
   and configuration files in your workspace. So this whole section can be
   skipped.

Log in as root to run the SES 5.5 Salt runner on the salt admin host.

.. code-block:: bash

  # salt-run --out=yaml openstack.integrate prefix=mycloud

The prefix parameter allows pools to be created with the specified prefix.
In this way, multiple cloud deployments can use different users and pools on
the same SES deployment.

The sample yaml output:

.. code-block:: yaml

  ceph_conf:
    cluster_network: 10.84.56.0/21
    fsid: d5d7c7cb-5858-3218-a36f-d028df7b0673
    mon_host: 10.84.56.8, 10.84.56.9, 10.84.56.7
    mon_initial_members: ses-osd1, ses-osd2, ses-osd3
    public_network: 10.84.56.0/21
  cinder:
    key: AQCdfIRaxefEMxAAW4zp2My/5HjoST2Y8mJg8A==
    rbd_store_pool: mycloud-cinder
    rbd_store_user: cinder
  cinder-backup:
    key: AQBb8hdbrY2bNRAAqJC2ZzR5Q4yrionh7V5PkQ==
    rbd_store_pool: mycloud-backups
    rbd_store_user: cinder-backup
  glance:
    key: AQD9eYRachg1NxAAiT6Hw/xYDA1vwSWLItLpgA==
    rbd_store_pool: mycloud-glance
    rbd_store_user: glance
  nova:
    rbd_store_pool: mycloud-nova
  radosgw_urls:
    - http://10.84.56.7:80/swift/v1
    - http://10.84.56.8:80/swift/v1

After you have run the openstack.integrate runner, copy the yaml into the
ses_config.yml file in the root of the workspace on the Deployer node.
