doc/source/deployment/setup-deployer.rst, before:

.. _setupdeployer:

Set Up Deployer
=================

.. blockdiag::

   blockdiag {
     default_fontsize = 11;
     deployer [label="Setup deployer"]
     ses_integration [label="SES Integration"]
     configure [label="Configure\nCloud"]
     setup_caasp_workers [label="Setup CaaS Platform\nworker nodes"]
     patch_upstream [label="Apply patches\nfrom upstream\n(for developers)"]
     build_images [label="Build Docker images\n(for developers)"]
     deploy_airship [label="Deploy Airship"]
     deploy_openstack [label="Deploy OpenStack"]

     group {
       deployer
       color="red"
     }

     deployer -> ses_integration;
     ses_integration -> configure;
     configure -> setup_caasp_workers;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "Cloud Deployment"
       setup_caasp_workers -> patch_upstream;
       patch_upstream -> build_images;
       build_images -> deploy_airship [folded];
       setup_caasp_workers -> deploy_airship;
       deploy_airship -> deploy_openstack;
     }
   }


Create SUSE Containerized OpenStack Workspace
---------------------------------------------

All the deployment artifacts are stored in a :term:`workspace`. By default,
the workspace is a directory located in the user's home directory on the
Deployer. Set up your workspace with the following steps:

1. Create a directory in your home directory that ends in -workspace.
2. Export SOCOK8S_ENVNAME=<directory name prefix> to set your workspace.
3. To change your workspace parent directory, export `SOCOK8S_WORKSPACE_BASEDIR`
   with the base directory where your workspace is located.

.. code-block:: console

  mkdir ~/socok8s-workspace
  export SOCOK8S_ENVNAME=socok8s
  export SOCOK8S_WORKSPACE_BASEDIR=~


Installing the SUSE Containerized OpenStack software
----------------------------------------------------

There are several ways to install the SUSE Containerized OpenStack software.

1. (Recommended) Install with an ISO image including required dependencies:

   a. Download ``openSUSE-Addon-socok8s-x86_64-Media.iso`` from
      https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/Cloud:/socok8s:/master/images/iso/
   b. sudo zypper addrepo --refresh <PATH_TO_ISO_IMAGE> socok8s-iso
   c. sudo zypper install socok8s (installs to /usr/share/socok8s)

2. Install from the openSUSE repository including required dependencies:

   a. sudo zypper addrepo --refresh \\
      https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/Cloud:/socok8s:/master/openSUSE_Leap_15.0/ socok8s
   b. sudo zypper install socok8s (installs to /usr/share/socok8s)

3. (For developers only) Clone the repository.

   The following software must be manually installed on your `Deployer` using zypper or pip install:

     * ansible >= 2.7.8
     * git-core
     * jq
     * python3-virtualenv
     * python3-jmespath
     * python3-netaddr
     * python3-openstacksdk
     * python3-openstackclient
     * python3-heatclient

   After the required packages are installed, clone
   `socok8s GitHub repository <https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/socok8s>`.
   This repository uses submodules, which have additional code needed for the
   playbooks to work. Required dependencies must be installed manually.

   ::

      git clone --recursive https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/socok8s.git

   Fetch or update the tree of the submodules by running:

   ::

      git submodule update --init --recursive


SSH Key Preparation
-------------------

Create an SSH key on the Deployer node, and add the public key to each CaaS
Platform worker node.

.. note ::

  1. To generate the key, use ssh-keygen -t rsa

  2. To copy the ssh key to each node, use the ssh-copy-id command,
     for example: ssh-copy-id root@192.168.122.1

  Test this by connecting to the node via SSH and executing a command with ‘sudo’.
  Neither operation should require a password.

Passwordless sudo
-----------------

If installing as a non-root user, you will need to give your user passwordless
sudo on the Deployer.

.. code-block:: console

   sudo visudo

Add the following.

.. code-block:: console

   <username> ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL

Add the above line after "#includedir /etc/sudoers.d". replace <username> with
your username.

Configure Ansible
-----------------

Use ARA (recommended)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ansible Run Analysis (ARA) makes Ansible runs easier to visualize, understand,
and troubleshoot. To use ARA:

1. Install ARA and its required dependencies: ``pip install ara[server]``.
2. Set the ARA environment variable before running `run.sh`: ``export USE_ARA='True'``

To set up ARA permanently on the `Deployer`, create an Ansible configuration
file loading ARA plugins:

.. code-block:: console

   python3 -m ara.setup.ansible | tee ~/.ansible.cfg

For more details on the ARA web interface, see
https://ara.readthedocs.io/en/stable/webserver.html.


Ansible Logging
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Enable Ansible logging with the following steps:

1. Create an Ansible configuration file in the $HOME directory,
   for example, ``.ansible.cfg``. This configuration file can be used for
   other Ansible configurations.

2. Add your ``log_path`` to ``.ansible.cfg``. Use a log path and log filename
   that fit your needs, for example:

   .. code-block:: console

      [defaults]

      log_path=$HOME/.ansible/ansible.log


Enable Pipelining (recommended)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can improve SSH connections by enabling pipelining:

.. code-block:: console

   cat << EOF >> ~/.ansible.cfg
   [ssh_connection]
   pipelining = True
   EOF

Commit message:

SOC-10091 Update docs to reflect current reality
The docs currently point to Leap, where in fact the deployer has
been targetting SLE15 SP1 for a while.

This should clarify the requirements.

doc/source/deployment/setup-deployer.rst, after:

.. _setupdeployer:

Set Up Deployer
=================

.. blockdiag::

   blockdiag {
     default_fontsize = 11;
     deployer [label="Setup deployer"]
     ses_integration [label="SES Integration"]
     configure [label="Configure\nCloud"]
     setup_caasp_workers [label="Setup CaaS Platform\nworker nodes"]
     patch_upstream [label="Apply patches\nfrom upstream\n(for developers)"]
     build_images [label="Build Docker images\n(for developers)"]
     deploy_airship [label="Deploy Airship"]
     deploy_openstack [label="Deploy OpenStack"]

     group {
       deployer
       color="red"
     }

     deployer -> ses_integration;
     ses_integration -> configure;
     configure -> setup_caasp_workers;

     group {
       color = "#EEEEEE"
       label = "Cloud Deployment"
       setup_caasp_workers -> patch_upstream;
       patch_upstream -> build_images;
       build_images -> deploy_airship [folded];
       setup_caasp_workers -> deploy_airship;
       deploy_airship -> deploy_openstack;
     }
   }


Create SUSE Containerized OpenStack Workspace
---------------------------------------------

All the deployment artifacts are stored in a :term:`workspace`. By default,
the workspace is a directory located in the user's home directory on the
Deployer. Set up your workspace with the following steps:

1. Create a directory in your home directory that ends in -workspace.
2. Export SOCOK8S_ENVNAME=<directory name prefix> to set your workspace.
3. To change your workspace parent directory, export `SOCOK8S_WORKSPACE_BASEDIR`
   with the base directory where your workspace is located.

.. code-block:: console

  mkdir ~/socok8s-workspace
  export SOCOK8S_ENVNAME=socok8s
  export SOCOK8S_WORKSPACE_BASEDIR=~


Installing the SUSE Containerized OpenStack software
----------------------------------------------------

We currently only allow to deploy master branch from sources.

1. (For developers only) Clone the repository.

   The following software must be manually installed on your `Deployer` using zypper or pip install:

     * ansible >= 2.7.8
     * git-core
     * jq
     * python3-virtualenv
     * python3-jmespath
     * python3-netaddr
     * python3-openstacksdk
     * python3-openstackclient
     * python3-heatclient

   After the required packages are installed, clone
   `socok8s GitHub repository <https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/socok8s>`.
   This repository uses submodules, which have additional code needed for the
   playbooks to work. Required dependencies must be installed manually.

   ::

      git clone --recursive https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/socok8s.git

   Fetch or update the tree of the submodules by running:

   ::

      git submodule update --init --recursive


SSH Key Preparation
-------------------

Create an SSH key on the Deployer node, and add the public key to each CaaS
Platform worker node.

.. note ::

  1. To generate the key, use ssh-keygen -t rsa

  2. To copy the ssh key to each node, use the ssh-copy-id command,
     for example: ssh-copy-id root@192.168.122.1

  Test this by connecting to the node via SSH and executing a command with ‘sudo’.
  Neither operation should require a password.

Passwordless sudo
-----------------

If installing as a non-root user, you will need to give your user passwordless
sudo on the Deployer.

.. code-block:: console

   sudo visudo

Add the following.

.. code-block:: console

   <username> ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL

Add the above line after "#includedir /etc/sudoers.d". replace <username> with
your username.

Configure Ansible
-----------------

Use ARA (recommended)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ansible Run Analysis (ARA) makes Ansible runs easier to visualize, understand,
and troubleshoot. To use ARA:

1. Install ARA and its required dependencies: ``pip install ara[server]``.
2. Set the ARA environment variable before running `run.sh`: ``export USE_ARA='True'``

To set up ARA permanently on the `Deployer`, create an Ansible configuration
file loading ARA plugins:

.. code-block:: console

   python3 -m ara.setup.ansible | tee ~/.ansible.cfg

For more details on the ARA web interface, see
https://ara.readthedocs.io/en/stable/webserver.html.


Ansible Logging
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Enable Ansible logging with the following steps:

1. Create an Ansible configuration file in the $HOME directory,
   for example, ``.ansible.cfg``. This configuration file can be used for
   other Ansible configurations.

2. Add your ``log_path`` to ``.ansible.cfg``. Use a log path and log filename
   that fit your needs, for example:

   .. code-block:: console

      [defaults]

      log_path=$HOME/.ansible/ansible.log


Enable Pipelining (recommended)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can improve SSH connections by enabling pipelining:

.. code-block:: console

   cat << EOF >> ~/.ansible.cfg
   [ssh_connection]
   pipelining = True
   EOF
