README.md, before:

# Intro

This project automates the deployment of OpenStack-Helm (OSH) on
SUSE Container as a Service Platform (CaaSP) and SUSE Enterprise
Storage (SES) via a series of shell scripts and Ansible playbooks.

# General requirements

## Cloning this repository

To get started, you need to clone this repository. This repository
uses submodules, so you need to get all the code to make sure
the playbooks work.


```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/socok8s.git
```

Alternatively, one can fetch/update the tree of the submodules by
running:

```
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

# Deployment on SUSE engcloud

## Installing base software on your local machine

On the system you plan to deploy OSH from, you'll need to install some
software and create local configuration.

You need to have the following software installed:

* ipcalc
* jq
* git
* python-virtualenv

Optionally (but recommended), you can preinstall the following:

* ansible>=2.7.0
* python-openstackclient
* python-requests
* python-jmespath
* python-openstacksdk
* python-netaddr

Make sure to install the variant of the packages that matches the Python
release that ansible is using. (E.g. on Tumbleweed ansible is using Python 3,
so install the "python3-" variant of the packages)

If those aren't installed, they will be installed in a venv in ~/.socok8svenv

## Configure engcloud

You can access the engcloud web UI at https://engcloud.prv.suse.net/.
For more information, see https://wiki.microfocus.net/index.php/SUSE/ECP.

Make sure your environment have an openstack client configuration file.
For that, you can create the `~/.config/openstack/clouds.yaml`.

Replace the username and password with your appropriate credentials
in the following example:

```
clouds:
  engcloud:
    region_name: CustomRegion
    auth:
      auth_url: https://engcloud.prv.suse.net:5000/v3
      username: foctodoodle # your username here
      password: my-super-secret-password # your password here or add it into secure.yaml
      project_name: cloud
      project_domain_name: default
      user_domain_name: ldap_users
    identity_api_version: 3
    cacert: /usr/share/pki/trust/anchors/SUSE_Trust_Root.crt.pem
ansible:
  use_hostnames: True
  expand_hostvars: False
  fail_on_errors: True
```

If you don't have the SUSE root certificate installed, check
http://ca.suse.de/. Or you can set `insecure: True` (not recommended).

You'll also need to pre-create some configuration in engcloud. It's
convention here to use your username as part of the name of objects you create.

Create a keypair on engcloud (using either the engcloud web interface or
OpenStack CLI's `openstack keypair create`)
for accessing the instances created. Remember the name of this
keypair (which appears as `foctodoodle-key` in the example below)

Now create a network, a subnet, a router and a connection to the floating network:

```
export OS_CLOUD=engcloud
export PREFIX=foctodoodle
openstack network create ${PREFIX}-net
openstack subnet create --network ${PREFIX}-net --subnet-range 192.168.100.0/24 ${PREFIX}-subnet
openstack router create ${PREFIX}-router
openstack router set --external-gateway floating ${PREFIX}-router
openstack router add subnet ${PREFIX}-router ${PREFIX}-subnet
```

Define the following environment variables prior to running the
socok8s scripts:

```
# assuming you followed the example for clouds.yaml
export OS_CLOUD=engcloud
# the name of the keypair you created
export KEYNAME=foctodoodle-key
# your username plus whatever else you'd like, will be used for naming
# objects you create in engcloud
export PREFIX=foctodoodle
# the name of the subnet you created
export INTERNAL_SUBNET=${PREFIX}-subnet
```

Prior to executing scripts, be aware that you may need to do some
cleanup prior to retrying scripts or playbooks should they fail. In
some steps a delete.sh script is provided to clean up any created
resources. Reconfirming that you've done all the previous steps to set
up now will save you some time later.

## Run deploy on engcloud

To begin a deployment from scratch, go to the root of your socok8s
clone and run:

```
./run.sh
```

The default action for `run.sh` is to do a `setup_everything` on openstack.
This means the `run.sh` script will run all of top level actions.

## Re-deploying OSH

If you only want to redeploy the last step, openstack-helm,
you can run the following:

```
### (Optional): Cleanup k8s from all previous deployment code
./run.sh clean_k8s
```

```
### Re-deploy OpenStack-Helm
./run.sh deploy_osh
```

# Reference: run.sh

## Actions

The `run.sh` script accepts `actions` in the form of positional arguments:

```
./run.sh <action>
```

Here are the actions available:

* deploy_ses
* deploy_caasp
* deploy_ccp_deployer
* enroll_caasp_workers:
  This makes sure the caasp workers are part of the cluster, by using kubic
  automation. It also then ensures the security groups have been removed on
  the ports to allow the vip to exist on those nodes
* setup_hosts:
  This combines all the steps to deploy the requirements of an
  socok8s deployment. In other words, it runs: deploy_ses, deploy_caasp,
  deploy_ccp_deployer, enroll_caasp_workers.
* patch_upstream: This allows developers (please set developer mode!) to
  cherry-picking upstream patches on top of upstream repos.
* build_images: This allows developer to build images for internal consumption.
  Used in CI.
* deploy_osh: Self explanatory.
* setup_everything: From A to Z.
* teardown: Destroys all the nodes in an openstack environment.
  Set the env var 'DELETE_ANYWAY' to 'YES' to delete everything in your userspace.
* clean_k8s: Removes all k8s definitions that were introduced during deployment
  (Experimental!)

## env variables

`run.sh` behaviour can be modified with environment variables.

`DEPLOYMENT_MECHANISM` contains the target destination of the deploy tooling.
Currently set to `openstack` by default, but will later include a
`baremetal` and `kvm`.

`OSH_DEVELOPER_MODE` determines if you want to enter developer mode or not.
This adds a step for patching upstream code, builds images and then continues
the deployment.

`USE_ARA` determines if you want to store records in ARA. Set its value
to 'True' for using ARA.

# Reference: Architecture and inventories

By default, it is expected these playbooks and scripts would run
on a CI/developer machine.

In order to not pollute the developer/CI machine (called further
'localhost'), all the data relevant for a deployment (like any
eventual override) will be stored in user-space, unpriviledged
access (this means the ~/suse-osh-deploy folder for now).
Any hardware and software distribution can be used,
as long as 'localhost' is able to run git, and ansible
(see requirements). This also helps the story of running behind
a corporate firewall: the 'developer' can be (connecting to)
a bastion host, while the real actions happen behind the firewall.

This SoCok8s deployment mechanism requires therefore another
entity, another machine, to orchestrate kubernetes commands.
This machine is named the `deployer` node.
The `deployer` node will be in charge of running the OSH code,
and manage the kubernetes configuration.

The `deployer` node is expected to run SLE15 or openSUSE Leap 15.

The deployer node can be the same as the `localhost`
(developer/CI machine), but it is not a requirement.

The deployer node (currently) needs access to the SES machines
through SSH to fetch the keys. In the future, this SSH connection
might be skipped if the `localhost` have knowledge of these keys.

## Example inventories and conventions

In order for a deployer to bring its own inventory, we have
defined a set of convention about inventory groupnames.

This is WIP and might change in the future. We want to
move to a single inventory file, with different group
names.

* All nodes belonging to the SES deployment should be listed
  under the `ses_nodes` group. First node in this group must
  be a monitor node with the appropriate ceph keyrings in
  `/etc/ceph/`.

* The inventory for SES nodes is stored in `inventory-ses.ini`
  by default.

* The CI/developer machine is always named `localhost`.

* The `deployer` node is listed in a group `osh-deployer`.
  In order to not extend the length of the deployment,
  the `osh-deployer` group should contain only one node.
  We might support multiple `osh-deployer` nodes for
  muliple k8s deployments later.

* The inventory for the `deployer` node is stored in
  `inventory-osh.ini` by default.

* Example inventories and user variables can be found
  in the `examples/` directory.

# Deployment using KVM

This is not currently supported, but is a planned future addition.

# Deployment on bare-metal

This is not currently supported, but is a planned future addition.

# Re-using a manually-installed SES and CAASP

While a fully automated baremetal or VM based installation is not
currently supported, selected parts of the automated install process
can be used to configure existing SES and CAASP nodes. Here is an
overview of how to do this. Note that these instructions are a work in
progress and do not currently provide a comprehensive overview of
installing SES and CAASP themselves.

## Manually installing nodes

Install SLES12SP3 with the SES5 extension from the SLES12SP3
ISO. Please ensure that your SES system has a second disk device
available.

Install a CAASP admin, master, and two worker nodes manually from the
CAASP ISO, setting the hostname on each node at install time. Visit
the admin web interface and configure it, being sure to install
Tiller.

You will also want a system that acts as a deployer, which should have
SSH access via keys to the CAASP and SES nodes. Note that the
playbooks currently expect to use the root user on the remote systems
and you may have better luck running the playbooks as the root user on
your deployer as well.

## Manually running Stage 2 to configure SES

On your deployer, check out this repository. Be sure to import the git
submodules as above. In the top level of the repository, create a file
named .ses_ip containing the IP address of your SES node. Also create
a file named inventory-ses.ini with the following contents:

ses ansible_host=<SES IP> ansible_user=root

On the SES node, you will need to either configure SuSEfirewall2 to
allow access to the SSH port, or disable SuSEfirewall2 entirely. Next,
add a /root/.ssh/authorized_keys file containing the id_rsa.pub from
your deployer. Finally, note that the SES node must have a FQDN in
/etc/hosts, such as mycaasp.local for all steps to succeed.

Now you are ready to run the Stage 2 playbooks. From the top level of
this repository, run ./2_deploy_ses_aio/run.sh.

## Manually running Stage 7 to run OpenStack Helm

Prior to running Stage 7, you will need to perform additional
configuration on the deployer.

On the deployer:

- Create an inventory-osh.ini file in the top level of this
  repository. To do this, copy the file from
  examples/config/inventory-osh.ini and edit it to reflect your
  environment.

- Enable and start sshd on your deployer and the location you are
  running the playbooks. [NOTE: this step can be removed or adapted
  subject to merge of PR #29]

- Add suse_osh_deploy_vip_with_cidr to
  ~/suse-osh-deploy/env/extravars. This should be an IP available
  on the network you're using which can be used as a VIP.

- Download the kubeconfig from Velum on the CAASP admin node and copy
  it to ~/suse-osh-deploy/kubeconfig and ~/.kube/config

- pip install --upgrade pip to avoid segfaults when installing
  openstack clients.

- pip install jmespath netaddr

On each CAASP node:

- add id_rsa.pub to root's authorized_keys file.

Now you are ready to run Stage 7, as follows:

```
ansible-playbook -v -e @~/suse-osh-deploy/env/extravars <play>
```

Please also check the etherpad for more documentation:
https://etherpad.nue.suse.com/p/osh_on_caasp

Commit message:

Rebase with latest socok8s master and added registry server

README.md, after:

# Intro

This project automates the deployment of OpenStack-Helm (OSH) on
SUSE Container as a Service Platform (CaaSP) and SUSE Enterprise
Storage (SES) via a series of shell scripts and Ansible playbooks.

# General requirements

## Cloning this repository

To get started, you need to clone this repository. This repository
uses submodules, so you need to get all the code to make sure
the playbooks work.


```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/socok8s.git
```

Alternatively, one can fetch/update the tree of the submodules by
running:

```
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

# Deployment on SUSE engcloud

## Installing base software on your local machine

On the system you plan to deploy OSH from, you'll need to install some
software and create local configuration.

You need to have the following software installed:

* ipcalc
* jq
* git
* python-virtualenv

Optionally (but recommended), you can preinstall the following:

* ansible>=2.7.0
* python-openstackclient
* python-requests
* python-jmespath
* python-openstacksdk
* python-netaddr

Make sure to install the variant of the packages that matches the Python
release that ansible is using. (E.g. on Tumbleweed ansible is using Python 3,
so install the "python3-" variant of the packages)

If those aren't installed, they will be installed in a venv in ~/.socok8svenv

## Configure engcloud

You can access the engcloud web UI at https://engcloud.prv.suse.net/.
For more information, see https://wiki.microfocus.net/index.php/SUSE/ECP.

Make sure your environment have an openstack client configuration file.
For that, you can create the `~/.config/openstack/clouds.yaml`.

Replace the username and password with your appropriate credentials
in the following example:

```
clouds:
  engcloud:
    region_name: CustomRegion
    auth:
      auth_url: https://engcloud.prv.suse.net:5000/v3
      username: foctodoodle # your username here
      password: my-super-secret-password # your password here or add it into secure.yaml
      project_name: cloud
      project_domain_name: default
      user_domain_name: ldap_users
    identity_api_version: 3
    cacert: /usr/share/pki/trust/anchors/SUSE_Trust_Root.crt.pem
ansible:
  use_hostnames: True
  expand_hostvars: False
  fail_on_errors: True
```

If you don't have the SUSE root certificate installed, check
http://ca.suse.de/. Or you can set `insecure: True` (not recommended).

You'll also need to pre-create some configuration in engcloud. It's
convention here to use your username as part of the name of objects you create.

Create a keypair on engcloud (using either the engcloud web interface or
OpenStack CLI's `openstack keypair create`)
for accessing the instances created. Remember the name of this
keypair (which appears as `foctodoodle-key` in the example below)

Now create a network, a subnet, a router and a connection to the floating network:

```
export OS_CLOUD=engcloud
export PREFIX=foctodoodle
openstack network create ${PREFIX}-net
openstack subnet create --network ${PREFIX}-net --subnet-range 192.168.100.0/24 ${PREFIX}-subnet
openstack router create ${PREFIX}-router
openstack router set --external-gateway floating ${PREFIX}-router
openstack router add subnet ${PREFIX}-router ${PREFIX}-subnet
```

Define the following environment variables prior to running the
socok8s scripts:

```
# assuming you followed the example for clouds.yaml
export OS_CLOUD=engcloud
# the name of the keypair you created
export KEYNAME=foctodoodle-key
# your username plus whatever else you'd like, will be used for naming
# objects you create in engcloud
export PREFIX=foctodoodle
# the name of the subnet you created
export INTERNAL_SUBNET=${PREFIX}-subnet
```

Prior to executing scripts, be aware that you may need to do some
cleanup prior to retrying scripts or playbooks should they fail. In
some steps a delete.sh script is provided to clean up any created
resources. Reconfirming that you've done all the previous steps to set
up now will save you some time later.

## Run deploy on engcloud

To begin a deployment from scratch, go to the root of your socok8s
clone and run:

```
./run.sh
```

The default action for `run.sh` is to do a `setup_everything` on openstack.
This means the `run.sh` script will run all of top level actions.

## Re-deploying OSH

If you only want to redeploy the last step, openstack-helm,
you can run the following:

```
### (Optional): Cleanup k8s from all previous deployment code
./run.sh clean_k8s
```

```
### Re-deploy OpenStack-Helm
./run.sh deploy_osh
```

# Reference: run.sh

## Actions

The `run.sh` script accepts `actions` in the form of positional arguments:

```
./run.sh <action>
```

Here are the actions available:

* deploy_ses
* deploy_caasp
* deploy_ccp_deployer
* enroll_caasp_workers:
  This makes sure the caasp workers are part of the cluster, by using kubic
  automation. It also then ensures the security groups have been removed on
  the ports to allow the vip to exist on those nodes
* setup_hosts:
  This combines all the steps to deploy the requirements of an
  socok8s deployment. In other words, it runs: deploy_ses, deploy_caasp,
  deploy_ccp_deployer, enroll_caasp_workers.
* patch_upstream: This allows developers (please set developer mode!) to
  cherry-picking upstream patches on top of upstream repos.
* build_images: This allows developer to build images for internal consumption.
  Used in CI.
* deploy_osh: Self explanatory.
* setup_everything: From A to Z.
* teardown: Destroys all the nodes in an openstack environment.
  Set the env var 'DELETE_ANYWAY' to 'YES' to delete everything in your userspace.
* clean_k8s: Removes all k8s definitions that were introduced during deployment
  (Experimental!)

## env variables

`run.sh` behaviour can be modified with environment variables.

`DEPLOYMENT_MECHANISM` contains the target destination of the deploy tooling.
Currently set to `openstack` by default, but will later include a
`baremetal` and `kvm`.

`OSH_DEVELOPER_MODE` determines if you want to enter developer mode or not.
This adds a step for patching upstream code, builds images and then continues
the deployment.

`USE_ARA` determines if you want to store records in ARA. Set its value
to 'True' for using ARA.

# Reference: Architecture and inventories

By default, it is expected these playbooks and scripts would run
on a CI/developer machine.

In order to not pollute the developer/CI machine (called further
'localhost'), all the data relevant for a deployment (like any
eventual override) will be stored in user-space, unpriviledged
access (this means the ~/suse-socok8s-deploy folder for now).
Any hardware and software distribution can be used,
as long as 'localhost' is able to run git, and ansible
(see requirements). This also helps the story of running behind
a corporate firewall: the 'developer' can be (connecting to)
a bastion host, while the real actions happen behind the firewall.

This SoCok8s deployment mechanism requires therefore another
entity, another machine, to orchestrate kubernetes commands.
This machine is named the `deployer` node.
The `deployer` node will be in charge of running the OSH code,
and manage the kubernetes configuration.

The `deployer` node is expected to run SLE15 or openSUSE Leap 15.

The deployer node can be the same as the `localhost`
(developer/CI machine), but it is not a requirement.

The deployer node (currently) needs access to the SES machines
through SSH to fetch the keys. In the future, this SSH connection
might be skipped if the `localhost` have knowledge of these keys.

## Example inventories and conventions

In order for a deployer to bring its own inventory, we have
defined a set of convention about inventory groupnames.

This is WIP and might change in the future. We want to
move to a single inventory file, with different group
names.

* All nodes belonging to the SES deployment should be listed
  under the `ses_nodes` group. First node in this group must
  be a monitor node with the appropriate ceph keyrings in
  `/etc/ceph/`.

* The inventory for SES nodes is stored in `inventory-ses.ini`
  by default.

* The CI/developer machine is always named `localhost`.

* The `deployer` node is listed in a group `osh-deployer`.
  In order to not extend the length of the deployment,
  the `osh-deployer` group should contain only one node.
  We might support multiple `osh-deployer` nodes for
  muliple k8s deployments later.

* The inventory for the `deployer` node is stored in
  `inventory-osh.ini` by default.

* Example inventories and user variables can be found
  in the `examples/` directory.

# Deployment using KVM

This is not currently supported, but is a planned future addition.

# Deployment on bare-metal

This is not currently supported, but is a planned future addition.

# Re-using a manually-installed SES and CAASP

While a fully automated baremetal or VM based installation is not
currently supported, selected parts of the automated install process
can be used to configure existing SES and CAASP nodes. Here is an
overview of how to do this. Note that these instructions are a work in
progress and do not currently provide a comprehensive overview of
installing SES and CAASP themselves.

## Manually installing nodes

Install SLES12SP3 with the SES5 extension from the SLES12SP3
ISO. Please ensure that your SES system has a second disk device
available.

Install a CAASP admin, master, and two worker nodes manually from the
CAASP ISO, setting the hostname on each node at install time. Visit
the admin web interface and configure it, being sure to install
Tiller.

You will also want a system that acts as a deployer, which should have
SSH access via keys to the CAASP and SES nodes. Note that the
playbooks currently expect to use the root user on the remote systems
and you may have better luck running the playbooks as the root user on
your deployer as well.

## Manually running Stage 2 to configure SES

On your deployer, check out this repository. Be sure to import the git
submodules as above. In the top level of the repository, create a file
named .ses_ip containing the IP address of your SES node. Also create
a file named inventory-ses.ini with the following contents:

ses ansible_host=<SES IP> ansible_user=root

On the SES node, you will need to either configure SuSEfirewall2 to
allow access to the SSH port, or disable SuSEfirewall2 entirely. Next,
add a /root/.ssh/authorized_keys file containing the id_rsa.pub from
your deployer. Finally, note that the SES node must have a FQDN in
/etc/hosts, such as mycaasp.local for all steps to succeed.

Now you are ready to run the Stage 2 playbooks. From the top level of
this repository, run ./2_deploy_ses_aio/run.sh.

## Manually running Stage 7 to run OpenStack Helm

Prior to running Stage 7, you will need to perform additional
configuration on the deployer.

On the deployer:

- Create an inventory-osh.ini file in the top level of this
  repository. To do this, copy the file from
  examples/config/inventory-osh.ini and edit it to reflect your
  environment.

- Enable and start sshd on your deployer and the location you are
  running the playbooks. [NOTE: this step can be removed or adapted
  subject to merge of PR #29]

- Add socok8s_deploy_vip_with_cidr to
  ~/suse-socok8s-deploy/env/extravars. This should be an IP available
  on the network you're using which can be used as a VIP.

- Download the kubeconfig from Velum on the CAASP admin node and copy
  it to ~/suse-socok8s-deploy/kubeconfig and ~/.kube/config

- pip install --upgrade pip to avoid segfaults when installing
  openstack clients.

- pip install jmespath netaddr

On each CAASP node:

- add id_rsa.pub to root's authorized_keys file.

Now you are ready to run Stage 7, as follows:

```
ansible-playbook -v -e @~/suse-socok8s-deploy/env/extravars <play>
```

Please also check the etherpad for more documentation:
https://etherpad.nue.suse.com/p/osh_on_caasp
